<!-- TITLE: New Mechatropolis -->
<!-- SUBTITLE: The Sleeping City -->

The city originally founded as Magatropolis was known as a busy port town, with many established trade routes and a constant flurry of activity. A haven for the more adventurous types, seafarers and gypsies always stopped into Magatropolis on their way through. The people of Magatropolis had a strong work ethic, never afraid to do what was needed to get a job done. Friendliness and intelligence were valued by the people of Magatropolis, and the city functioned mostly on its own, with just a little guidance from the city mayor.

One day, a breakthrough discovery was made by a Magatropolis engineer named Josiah Blackwell. He discovered that it was possible to charge metals with the residual energies left behind by magical creatures. This allowed for all sorts of new mechanical possibilities, and an industrial age began for Magatropolis.

Many great and wonderous machines were created within the walls of Magatropolis, and soon the engineers had even created mechanical creatures able to perform simple tasks. As the technology progressed, the machines became smarter, and eventually the people of Magatropolis grew lazy as they let their cold metal creations run their lives for them.
Every aspect of daily life was now automated - the ship captains had been replaced by intelligently programmed mech ships. Dock laborers were now efficient titanium cranes. Even the city guards had been replaced by huge lumbering mechanical sentries.

In jest, the nickname Mechatropolis had been given to the city. What once were hand masoned city walls covered in lush ivy were now replaced with stark sheet metal. The docks were shut down. Eventually it was decided by the city that it would be more efficient to build and elect a mechanical mayor, as its logic was programmed expertly and therefore it could never make a wrong decision. Upon first hearing the nickname Mechatropolis, the robotic mayor did not have the capabilities to compute the humor behind the name, and it decided that, in fact, that name was more logical than the previous name of Magatropolis. The mayor officially changed the city's name to New Mechatropolis and at once, work began on a huge factory facility in the heart of the city.

Tall metal walls were erected around the new factory, and technology continued to advance at a rapid pace. Newer models of the city's labor mechs were being rolled out constantly, and the older technology would either be scrapped for parts outside the factory, or sent to the nearby Drybone Cove to be dumped on the beach.

By this point, the mechs were primarily running the city, and the few flesh-and-blood people that remained in New Mechatropolis were all but useless. They had lost their ability to take care of themselves without the aid of a mech to do every little thing for them. The people became fat and lazy, spending most of their days sleeping in bed. An entire subculture emerged in the city based around sleeping - shopkeepers became rich by capitalizing on this trend, offering for sale a variety of luxury blankets, pillows, sleeping masks, and other bedtime accessories.