<!-- TITLE: Val'Sharith's Shade -->


Not long ago, a powerful and highly intelligent dragon by the name of Val'Sharith roamed the lands. Among many other accolades, she was most notable for coming into possesion of an ancient and mysterious artifact known as Mendallion. This legendary object was an equally intelligent sentient healing stone, able to heal at will any who possessed it. Val'Sharith was not evil, but self-centered and narcissistic, as many dragons tend to be, and used Mendallion's powers only to further her own gain. Never helping others, and accumulating a vast treasury of resources and collectables, Val'Sharith quickly became despised by the world at large. Eventually, even Mendallion grew to hate Val'Sharith, bored of their combined power and ready to live out its own ambitions of world domination.

Mendallion found its opportunity one day. As Val'Sharith strutted and strolled through the city walkways of Gal'Vae, wearing an illusory Dark Elf persona as she did often, Mendallion willed itself to roll out of her satchel into the channels of water that flow through the city. There it sat in the waters, unnoticed by its forlorn owner, observing the city life around it. How it longed to be able to walk about freely and live a true life! As it sat and soaked in the cold waters of Gal'Vae, Mendallion devised a plan. The more it observed, the more Mendallion understood that the residents of Gal'Vae had an unnatural affinity for the afterlife, spirits, and the walking undead. Not Necromancers in the traditional sense, Gal'Vaen people do not defile and use the dead at their every whim. Instead, they harness dark energies and perform elaborate rituals to commune with those who have passed, summoning phantasms and ghosts not as their master, but as a colleague with a mutual respect for one another.

The way Mendallion saw it, perhaps it could will itself into the ownership of just the right Gal'Vaen Occultist, and perhaps it could convince its new holder to perform a macabre ritual to transfer Mendallion's very life force into a host body, or even an otherworldly spirit! Mendallion hungrily lusted after what he desired, and as was always the way of his influence, eventually he was spotted lying in the water by a noteable Gal'Vaen Faustian. Powerful, indeed, was Mendallion's new owner, though the artifact quickly invaded his thoughts, filling his mind with strange new ideas and suggestions. Mendallion's promises were grand, and the Faustian began hiding away in his home, poring over hundreds of occult tomes, searching for the perfect host spirit for the great Mendallion.

None truly know what became of Mendallion, as its last known whereabouts were in the Faustian's home and ownership. However, weeks after the Faustian was last seen going into his home, he was found dead, brutally murdered in a gory scene - burn marks were on the floors and walls, several varities of ritual circles were drawn on the floor in blood, and the Faustian's body had been ripped apart in what looked like a violent explosion. There was no trace of Mendallion.


As for Val'Sharith - Upon leaving Gal'Vae the day that Mendallion left her, she still did not realize that it was gone. Spreading her great wings and dropping her illusion, she glided over the sparsely forested dry lands outside of the city when a roving band of giants caught her attention. 

Giants are well known for being wealthy, as their great size advantage over others allows them to accomplish feats that the smaller races are readily willing to pay them for. Many giants form construction guilds and reach vast fortune. 

Val'Sharith of course saw this as an opportunity to pick a fight and steal some easy platinum. She swooped down and lashed out at the giant leader with her sharp talons. The giants were quick to react and a great battle began. As trees were felled and blood was spilled, Val'Sharith used her many known magic spells to slay many of the giants. As she grew weary and wounded, she called out to Mendallion, whom she thought to still be in her satchel, commanding it to heal her wounds as she had done so many times before. When she did not hear its voice speaking back to her, Val'Sharith panicked and took off into the skies. Seizing the moment, one of the few remaining giants took his great axe and hurled it into the air, and with a great force it embedded itself into the injured dragon's head. She spun through the air and plummeted back to the earth, crashing into the ground. Val'Sharith the unstoppable was defeated.

Afraid of what retribution might await them, and unsure of what connections a being as mighty and powerful as Val'Sharith might have, the giants quickly covered her body with soil and fled the area. It was only later, after they were certain that no creature even worse than Val'Sharith would be coming after them for the slaying of the great dragon, that the giants went back and constructed a huge monolithic grave marker; a larger than life trophy of their kill.

As word got out that she was dead, many people began to let their imaginations run wild with thoughts about the dragon. If she was said to carry the legendary artifact Mendallion, what else might she have had on her person at the time of her death? The truth on this matter is stranger than fiction, however. 

Indeed, Val'Sharith did carry many magical devices and implements on her travels. As she was struck by the giant's axe and began to twirl through the air, her satchel was flung from her side. Her sizeable collection of valuable and unique treasures was tossed from the satchel, going every direction in the air and scattering all over the land below.

The giants who killed and buried the dragon, in their haste to leave did not think to scour the fields for her artifacts. Many of the precious magical orbs and unstable mana-based objects shattered upon hitting the ground, their energies seeping into the earth. The air filled with crackling energy and a heavy fog descended upon the land. Spell scrolls and recipe parchments rotted into the soil over time and many of the treasures Val'Sharith carried were damaged or lost.

But not all of them. As the legends spread about what potential bounty could be had in the area now known to most as Val'Sharith's Shade, it was inevitable that someone would eventually make an outstanding effort to find it. Among the casual treasure hunters who would peek in the bushes hoping to catch the jeweled glimmer of a lost artifact , a savage crew of goblin miners invaded and pillaged the site where Val'Sharith was said to be buried. Calculated and well organized, it didn't take long for the goblins to unearth a huge pit in the center of the land. The bones of Val'Sharith and the many giants she killed during the battle were uncovered and exposed. The goblins, unlike their current situation in Dyanis, apparently found what they were looking for and left as quickly as they arrived.

Some time later, reports from those passing through the area began coming in about the massive pit being haunted by the spirits of the fallen giants. What one was just nondescript forest land was now a brooding, menacing hole in the earth. Some trade routes to Gal'Vae were even shut down because people were too afraid to pass through the pit.

The residents of the city of Gal'Vae became more closed off to the outside world, but not by choice. Most people were just too frightened to go there now, although the whisperings of paranormal activity in the Shade intrigued and delighted the Gal'Vaen.